JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: And I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the "NewsHour"
tonight:
As Hillary Clinton heads back to
the campaign
trail, we talk with Ohio voters
in a key Republican
county about the election.
GAIL CARPENTER, Trump Supporter:
We need a
bull in a China shop to break
things up.
It's not working.
The economy's bad.
I'm very worried about Iran and
North Korea.
I feel like he will do what he
needs to do
to keep us safe.
GWEN IFILL: Also ahead this
Thursday, the
age of hacking -- why
information feels less
safe than ever, and how it could
affect this
year's election.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And the second
part of our
forced marriage series takes on
the frightening
reality of American women and
girls being
offered as brides in another
country.
JADA, New Jersey Teen: I was a
kid.
And I really hadn't grown that
much, so I
was really scared.
GWEN IFILL: All that and more on
tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
GWEN IFILL: For Hillary Clinton,
it's the
first day back.
The Democratic presidential
nominee returned
to campaigning today after
recuperating from
illness.
She appeared rested, recovered,
as ready to
return to the campaign trail as
she boarded
her flight to North Carolina.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
Welcome back to stronger
together.
WOMAN: How are you doing?
How are you feeling?
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I am
doing great.
Thank you so much.
GWEN IFILL: Clinton was last
seen Sunday in
New York, nearly collapsing from
pneumonia
while leaving a 9/11 memorial.
Today, she flew to her first
event of the
week in Greensboro, North
Carolina.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I'm not
great at taking
it easy even under ordinary
circumstances,
but with just two months to go
until Election
Day, sitting at home was pretty
much the last
place I wanted to be.
GWEN IFILL: Clinton's aides
released a letter
from her doctor on Wednesday.
It rated the 68-year-old
candidate healthy
and fit to serve as president.
Today, she said her time away
helped her reconnect
to why she is running.
She explained later to
reporters.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: I'm
going to close
my campaign focused on
opportunities for kids
and fairness for families that's
been the
cause of my life.
It will be the passion of my
presidency.
We're offering ideas, not
insults.
GWEN IFILL: Republican Donald
Trump, who is
70 years old, released a letter
today from
his longtime doctor.
It also declared Trump healthy,
noting that
he takes cholesterol medication
and a low
dose of aspirin.
Trump discussed his medical
status in an interview
airing today on "The Dr. Oz
Show."
DR.
MEHMET OZ, "The Dr. Oz Show": If
elected at
age 70, you will be the oldest
person to ever
enter the Oval Office.
DONALD TRUMP: Just about the
same age as Ronald
Reagan, and Hillary is a year
behind me.
I would say, just based on my
life, I actually
-- and I don't know if this
makes sense -- I
feel as good today as I did when
I was 30.
GWEN IFILL: The GOP nominee also
talked policy
today at the Economic Club of
New York.
DONALD TRUMP: Over the next 10
years, our
economic team estimates that,
under our plan,
the economy will average 3.5
percent growth
and created a total of 25
million new jobs.
You can visit our Web site.
Just look at the math.
It works.
GWEN IFILL: Meanwhile, more
evidence the race
is tightening, with a CBS
News-New York Times
poll giving Clinton just a
two-point lead.
It also suggests an enthusiasm
gap; 51 percent
of Trump supporters say they're
very enthusiastic
about voting, while only 43
percent of Clinton
supporters say the same.
Health, stamina and enthusiasm
matter.
The candidates have 54 days left
until Election
Day, and just 11 days until
their first scheduled
debate.
We will look at how the
presidential race
is shaping up in the critical
state of Ohio
later in the program.
JUDY WOODRUFF: In the day's
other news: The
United Nations blamed Syria's
President Bashar
al-Assad for delays in getting
humanitarian
aid into the country, despite
the new cease-
fire.
U.N. officials want to send
convoys into Aleppo
from Turkey, but they say Syria
isn't providing
permits.
In Geneva today, U.N. special
envoy Staffan
De Mistura complained that
valuable time is
being wasted.
STAFFAN DE MISTURA, Special
United Nations
Envoy for Syria: These are days
which we should
have used for convoys to move
with the permit
to go because there is no
fighting.
The Russian Federation is
agreeing with us
about this.
This is something that requires
to take place
immediately.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, in
Syria, amateur
video purported to show
government airstrikes
on rebel groups in Homs and
Idlib, in violation
of the cease-fire.
Syria's main ally, Russia,
reported 45 rebel
violations in the last 24 hours.
GWEN IFILL: A self-described hit
man in the
Philippines now says President
Rodrigo Duterte
personally ordered killings by
death squads.
Edgar Matobato says it happened
when Duterte
was mayor of the southern city
of Davao.
He testified today at a senate
investigation.
It's looking into killings of
3,000 drug suspects
since Duterte became president.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back in this
country, President
Obama today created the first
national sanctuary
in the Atlantic Ocean.
The Marine Monument encompasses
5,000 square
miles off New England and
includes underwater
canyons and mountains.
The designation means a ban on
commercial
fishing, mining and drilling.
GWEN IFILL: The head of the IRS
will avoid
a congressional impeachment vote
for now.
Instead, John Koskinen has
agreed to testify
at a House hearing next week.
Republican conservatives accused
him of impeding
an investigation into tax
treatment of Tea
Party groups.
Koskinen has denied it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And Wall Street
headed back
up, with tech companies leading
the way.
The Dow Jones industrial average
gained 177
points today to close at 18212.
The Nasdaq rose nearly 76
points, and the
S&P 500 added 21.
GWEN IFILL: Still to come on the
"NewsHour":
the rise in computer hacks
against political
players; a GOP stronghold in
Ohio up for grabs;
the changing economy, where big
businesses
employ far fewer people; and
much more.
JUDY WOODRUFF: This year's
political campaign
has a new and different wrinkle.
Cyber-hacking has led to regular
public releases
of documents and private e-mails
involving
the political parties and key
players.
The Democrats are the most
frequent targets.
But it's not only them.
The list of election season
cyber-attacks
is growing.
The latest target, former
Secretary of State
Colin Powell.
A trove of his e-mails appeared
online this
week after his personal account
was hacked.
In one referring to GOP nominee
Donald Trump
and black voters, Powell wrote,
"He takes
us for idiots."
Another referred to Democrat
Hillary Clinton
as greedy, not transformational.
The messages were posted on a
site that's
reportedly an outlet for hackers
tied to Russia.
Clinton today did blame the
Russians.
The White House wasn't saying.
JOSH EARNEST, White House Press
Secretary:
We don't necessarily want to
reveal sources
and methods that the FBI uses to
conduct these
kinds of investigations.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All of this
follows the July
release of thousands of
Democratic National
Committee e-mails.
They were published on WikiLeaks
just before
the Democratic Convention.
And on Tuesday, WikiLeaks
tweeted a link to
more DNC files.
The Web site's founder, Julian
Assange, claimed
in an interview with the
"NewsHour" last month
that it's done in the public
interest.
JULIAN ASSANGE, Founder,
WikiLeaks: And that
performs an ongoing role leading
to great
works in investigative
journalism, successful
court cases, civil litigation,
criminal process,
and, of course, also contributes
to public
understanding.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile,
Politico reports
hackers are also targeting state
Democratic
officials.
And congressman Michael McCaul,
chair of the
House Homeland Security
Committee, says Republican
operatives have been hacked as
well.
Still, in Washington yesterday,
the president's
homeland security adviser, Lisa
Monaco, played
down any threat to the integrity
of the election,
but added:
LISA MONACO, Chief White House
Counterterrorism
Adviser: The efforts of
malicious actors to
intrude upon voter registration
databases
and other elements of our
critical infrastructure,
as well as our voting
infrastructure, is of
concern.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The White House
says if there
is a response to the hacking, it
may not be
announced in advance, or ever.
For a deeper look at the actors
and the politics
behind the hacks, we turn to
Dmitri Alperovitch.
He's co-founder and chief
technology officer
at CrowdStrike.
That's the cyber-security firm
that investigated
online breaches of the
Democratic Party over
the summer.
And David Sanger, chief
Washington correspondent
for The New York Times.
And we welcome both of you to
the program.
Dmitri, let me start with you.
How does this cyber-hacking of
the Democrats
and others this year compare to
what we have
seen in previous elections?
DMITRI ALPEROVITCH, Co-Founder
and CEO, CrowdStrike:
Well, it's really fascinating
right now, not
in the sense that election
officials are getting
hacked or political figures are
getting hacked.
We have seen that in other
countries.
And we have certainly seen in
the course of
the last couple of years in
Ukraine in particular,
where the Russians have been
very aggressive
in trying to disrupt the
presidential election
and the parliamentary elections
in Ukraine.
But what's impressing me about
this activity
right now is that it's happening
against the
United States.
That, we have never seen before.
And it speaks frankly to the
boldness of these
adversaries that are doing this
to all types
of figures across our political
spectrum.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we know the
administration
is not naming the Russians, so
how strong
is the evidence that that is
that who is it,
the Russians?
DMITRI ALPEROVITCH: Well, at
CrowdStrike,
we were the ones who were
brought in to investigate
the DNC and then the DCCC, the
Democratic
Congressional Campaign Committee
hacks, and
we're protecting actually a
number of organizations
across the political spectrum
now.
I can tell you that, based on
our investigation,
we're very confident that
Russian intelligence
operatives were behind those
intrusions.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David Sanger,
what is known
about the motive of the
Russians?
DAVID SANGER, The New York
Times: It's not
entirely clear, Judy, what their
motives are
may be.
This could have started as a
generalist espionage
operation.
And of, course, it's worth
remembering that
political organizations are
considered fair
game for espionage by foreign
intelligence
groups, including by the NSA and
the CIA.
We do this in our efforts to
understand, the
United States, that is, in our
efforts to
understanding what is happening
in Russia,
China and other places.
But what is different, as Dmitri
said, is
taking that information and, in
the lingo
of the industry, weaponizing it,
in other
words, releasing this in public.
And that is something we haven't
seen much
against American officials.
We got a first taste of it when
phone conversations
between Victoria Nuland, a
senior State Department
official, and an the American
ambassador in
Ukraine were broadcast.
Then we got more of that when
the DNC material
was stolen, probably as long ago
as up to
a year ago, but perhaps earlier
this year,
and then released this summer
just before,
as you said, the Democratic
National Convention.
So, the timing seemed released
-- seemed designed
to disturb the election.
The big fear, of course -- and
we wrote about
this in The Times this morning
-- is that
we're only at the beginning end
of this and
the next step might be the
election vote itself.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
How much damage -- before we
talk about what's
ahead, Dmitri, how much damage
has been done?
Is it possible to quantity?
And we have every reason to
expect it's going
to keep coming.
DMITRI ALPEROVITCH: Well,
certainly, reputations
right now are being impacted of
various official,
not just at the presidential
level, but at
the sort of local and state
levels whose private
dossiers and other campaign
information is
being released.
So, it's, I think, hard to tell
whether it's
going to impact any races
specifically.
But there's no question that
it's impacting
this race.
And we have already seen some
resignations
of senior Democratic Party
officials as a
result of these leaks.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And back to you,
David.
We heard Julian Assange in that
conversation
-- we didn't report just now
this -- but I
think there's no question that
he carries
a serious strong, hard feelings
against Hillary
Clinton, because she was very
critical of
him during that huge dump of
State Department
cables back in 2010.
Do we believe that it is between
the Russians
and Julian Assange and anybody
else involved,
WikiLeaks, that the Democrats
are going to
continue to be the main target
here?
DAVID SANGER: Well, they could
well be, although
the leaks from Secretary
Powell's e-mails
were obviously highly critical
of Donald Trump
as well.
So that doesn't quite fit the
narrative.
But Julian Assange has made no
secret of his
distaste for Hillary Clinton,
and neither
has Vladimir Putin.
And I think it's important to
remember, Judy,
that in Putin's mind, the United
States and
Secretary Clinton personally
intervened in
the 2011 Russian parliamentary
election, which
Mrs. Clinton denounced as a
rigged election.
And Putin believes that
encouraged street
protests against him and his
party.
So he protested that at the
time.
And in his mind, this may simply
be returning
a favor.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, I want to
ask both of
you about something.
And, David, you wrote about this
today.
You just raised it.
Dmitri, how vulnerable are U.S.
election systems?
How possible is it, how likely
is it that
outside actors could interfere
with the voting,
the election in November?
DMITRI ALPEROVITCH: Well,
there's certainly
no question that there are
vulnerabilities
in our election systems.
We have electronic voting
machines in certain
counties that don't produce a
paper ballot.
So if they're hacked, there's
actually no
way to tell what the original
vote intention
would have been.
If there's a backup paper ballot
that's printed
out, then you can always go back
and sort
of recount the vote manually.
So, in those cases, they would
certainly be
safe against hacking.
I think it all depends on how
close the election's
going to be.
If it's going to come down like
in 2000 to
a few hundred votes and it may
be a couple
of counties, then there's
certainly significant
potential for manipulation that
could occur.
If it's not even close, if it's
a landslide,
then it's not going to have any
effect.
But what I worry about even more
than the
actual manipulation of the vote
is the shadow
that can be cast on the
integrity of the process.
Even if there is proclamations
by these hackers
that they hacked the election or
they have
manipulated the vote, whether
they had actually
done it or not, that's going to
convince some
voters if their candidate had
lost that the
vote was actually rigged and the
person that
they were voting for should have
won..
JUDY WOODRUFF: David, you did a
great deal
of reporting on this.
What did you find?
DAVID SANGER: Well, the first
thing we found,
Judy, is that the voting
machines themselves
are pretty hard to hack because
they are largely
offline, though, as Dmitri
points out, in
five states, there's basically
no paper trail,
and I think that's pretty
dangerous.
Secondly, while they may not be
able to manipulate
the vote itself, it could cause
a lot of disruption
that could make the experience
in 2000, the
hanging chads in Florida, look
like a comparatively
small problem.
They could, for example, alter
data on voter
registration rolls, so people
can show up
to vote and their names would be
missing.
They would probably do a
provisional ballot,
but it would take a while to
sort that out.
There's question about the
safety of the systems
in which the votes once tallied
on election
eve are then transmitted within
the states,
whether that's encrypted or not.
Of course, every state does it
differently.
The fact they do it differently
is probably
also a source of a little bit of
protection.
And, finally, Judy, there's the
system that
we all use to report the
election results.
So, you know, when the
"NewsHour" and others
report results on election
night, you will
be getting early tallies from
the AP.
If somebody got into that
reporting system
and you had false numbers or
slightly altered
numbers, then there would be a
discrepancy
between what we heard on TV at
night and the
numbers as they came in for the
actual vote
count.
And that would also, as Dmitri
points out,
create some doubts about the
system, even
if it's only the real vote count
that matters.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Disturbing.
And I know it merits further --
there will
be more reporting on this.
Dmitri Alperovitch, David
Sanger, thank you
both.
DAVID SANGER: Thank you.
DMITRI ALPEROVITCH: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: In Ohio, Donald
Trump and Hillary
Clinton appear to be in a dead
heat.
But the stakes are higher for
Trump.
The Buckeye State has voted for
the winning
candidate in every election
since 1964, and
no Republican has ever won the
White House
without it.
Tonight, we begin a two-part
look at two counties
that tell the tale.
John Yang starts our reporting
in a suburb
outside Columbus.
JOHN YANG: September in
Delaware, Ohio, means
the annual All-Horse Parade, the
biggest event
of its kind east of the
Mississippi.
And among those gathered along
the parade
route, we found enthusiastic
supporters on
both sides in the presidential
horse race.
Retired educator Gail Carpenter
is voting
for Donald Trump.
GAIL CARPENTER, Trump Supporter:
We need a
bull in a China shop to break
things up.
It's not working.
The economy's bad.
I'm very worried about Iran and
North Korea.
I feel like he will do what he
needs to do
to keep us safe.
JOHN YANG: Jen Villanueva
Henkle, who works
with children, backs Hillary
Clinton.
JEN VILLANUEVA HENKLE, Clinton
Supporter:
She's done a lot for women and
children and
people living in poverty for the
entire history
of her career.
We support her and we're excited
to see her
be our next president.
JOHN YANG: But there were also
folks like
Julie Lamb.
JULIE LAMB, Ohio: It's been a
crazy ride for
the last year.
And I'm Republican, so that's
probably the
way I'm going to go, but not
that necessarily
that crazy about that candidate.
JOHN YANG: And here in the most
Republican
county in Ohio, that could spell
trouble for
Trump.
Polls in the state show him
locked in a tight
contest with Clinton.
No Republican has won the White
House without
winning this state.
Both campaigns have opened field
offices in
Delaware County within the past
week.
This is Ohio's wealthiest and
fastest-growing
county.
Farmland is quickly giving way
to manicured
lawns and big houses.
Republican presidential
candidates have won
this county in every election
since before
this diner opened in 1932.
KYLE KONDIK, University of
Virginia: You would
expect a Republican to run 10 to
15 points
better in a place like Delaware
than they
do statewide.
JOHN YANG: And that's where we
met Kyle Kondik
of the University of Virginia
Center for Politics.
He's written a book on Ohio's
role in picking
presidents, "The Bellwether."
KYLE KONDIK: What a Republican
needs to do
is run up the score in Ohio in
the conservative
rural counties and also the
high-income, highly
educated suburban counties that
again are
typically very Republican.
JOHN YANG: Like Delaware County.
KYLE KONDIK: Like Delaware
County.
And that's the path to victory.
And I think we saw that with
George W. Bush
in 2000 and 2004.
If Trump isn't doing quite as
well as Republicans
typically do in some of those
places, that
might be a problem for him and
he will have
to make up the votes elsewhere.
JOHN YANG: Which is why voters
like John Stark,
who owns a construction company,
are a threat
to Trump's chances.
Your first election,
presidential election
was what year?
JOHN STARK, Ohio: 1984.
JOHN YANG: You voted for?
JOHN STARK: For Reagan.
JOHN YANG: And which party's
candidate have
you voted for ever since?
JOHN STARK: The Republicans.
JOHN YANG: Until now?
JOHN STARK: Yes, I think this
will be the
first time not to, honestly.
JOHN YANG: Was that a difficult
decision for
you, as someone who has voted
for the Republican
candidate every time since 1984?
JOHN STARK: No.
When I first saw Trump, I knew I
couldn't
vote for him.
(LAUGHTER)
JOHN YANG: Nothing Trump has
said or done
since has swayed him.
JOHN STARK: The Republican Party
to me is
a party of small government, low
regulations,
low taxes.
And here we're not really sure
what he stands
for, except himself.
He likes to talk about himself a
lot.
JOHN YANG: Trump's economic
message doesn't
resonate with voters in this
prosperous county
like Stark.
He says business is good.
And his son got a job as an
audio engineer
a within a week of graduating
college.
Voting for Clinton was never an
option.
His candidate?
Libertarian Gary Johnson.
Do you worry that voting for
Johnson could
help Clinton?
JOHN STARK: I guess I don't
care.
You know, I got -- you got to
have principles,
right?
JOHN YANG: But it's not as if
Clinton's having
an easy ride here.
Cathy Okunlola was an
enthusiastic Barack
Obama supporter in 2008 and
2012.
This time, she's backing
Clinton, but without
that same excitement.
CATHY OKUNLOLA, Clinton
Supporter: She's not
going to get up and have those
huge inspiring
rallies that Obama did, you
know?
It's not like a big party when
you walk in
the room for Hillary, but she
gets the job
done.
And she really wants to help
people, I think.
Like, she's doing it for the
right reasons,
I think.
JOHN YANG: A stay-at-home mother
of two young
daughters, Okunlola said her
main goal on
Election Day is to beat Trump.
CATHY OKUNLOLA: I really dislike
Trump.
I never really believed he would
be the nominee,
but, hey, here we are.
So, yes, so I'm voting for
Hillary.
JOHN YANG: She struggled to put
her feelings
about Clinton into words.
CATHY OKUNLOLA: There's that kid
in your class
that just plugs away at
everything, you know?
They're not exactly the popular
kid, and they're
not exactly super talented at
music or anything,
but they just -- they study
hard, and they
show up, and they're always the
talk of the
class.
Obama would have been the prom
king and everybody
would've loved him.
And everybody went to school
with somebody
like that, you know, that
everybody wanted
to be around.
And she's not that person, but
she is somebody
where, if you were in trouble,
that's who
you wanted, you know?
JOHN YANG: Voters like Stark and
Okunlola
could well decide who wins Ohio
and perhaps,
the presidency.
Analyst Kyle Kondik:
KYLE KONDIK: I would suspect the
margin between
Trump and Clinton in Delaware
County will
be smaller than the typical
margin between
a Republican and Democrat in
this county,
and that could be very helpful
to Clinton,
but Trump may have opportunities
to make that
up in some more traditionally
Democratic places
that might be a little bit more
Republican
this time.
JOHN YANG: As voters face very
unpopular choices
and try to pick a winner in the
presidential
horse race.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang in Delaware
County, Ohio.
GWEN IFILL: Tomorrow, John
crosses the state
to report from a traditional
Democratic stronghold
where Donald Trump is hoping to
make inroads.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But first: Big
companies today
are not creating nearly as many
middle-income
jobs as they once did, and
that's been one
of the concerns in this
campaign.
Economics correspondent Paul
Solman went to
Detroit, where ideas for
spurring a new era
of local manufacturing are
taking shape.
It's part of his weekly series,
Making Sense.
PAUL SOLMAN: A must-see stop on
the grand
tour of decaying Detroit, the
plant that,
for decades, clanked out auto
chassis for
GM.
JERRY DAVIS, University of
Michigan: General
Motors at its height had 900,000
employees,
career ladders galore.
They were providing a lot of
benefits, creating
good middle-class jobs.
GM today has about 220,000
employees around
the world.
It's about as many as it had in
1928.
PAUL SOLMAN: But sociologist
Jerry Davis says
the GMs of yesteryear, though
models of productivity
and even of economic equality,
are history.
JERRY DAVIS: What happened to
General Motors
didn't just happen to General
Motors.
There are about half as many
public corporations
today as they were 20 years ago.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, instead of
General Motors,
U.S. Steel, Eastman Kodak, and I
could go
on and on, what have we got?
JERRY DAVIS: The big
corporations today don't
really have that many employees.
They're not providing career
ladders.
They're not creating
middle-class jobs.
Blockbuster had 80,000 employees
and 9,000
stores across the country.
Netflix does the same thing with
fewer than
4,000 people.
If anybody tells you they work
at Facebook,
probably they mean they are a
contractor,
because only about 12,000 people
actually
work at Facebook.
They are worth $300 billion, but
very few
people actually work there.
PAUL SOLMAN: In a new book,
Davis calls it
the vanishing American
corporation and poses
a pivotal question: What will
rise from the
wreckage?
Mega-firms that hire relatively
few workers?
Made-anywhere product peddlers
like Nike?
JERRY DAVIS: They're the biggest
sneaker and
sporting goods company in the
world, but they
don't actually make most of the
stuff with
their name brand on it.
They design it, they market it
from Oregon,
but the production is done by
contractors
all around the world.
And that model is spread widely.
It's not just sneakers, it's not
just garments.
Electronics, pharmaceuticals,
pet food, you
name the product, and you can
find somebody
to manufacture it and put your
name on it.
PAUL SOLMAN: Nikefication, Davis
has dubbed
it, exemplified by another
multinational with
a Detroit foothold, Ikea.
JERRY DAVIS: The Ikea model is
you manufacture
it somewhere, you ship it out
around the world,
flat pack.
So this model might be a very
good model for
customers because it's very
inexpensive.
It's not the world's best
furniture, but you
can live with it.
PAUL SOLMAN: And you do have to
assemble it
yourself or hire someone to do
it for you.
Indeed, these days, a world of
temps is only
a moment away.
JERRY DAVIS: A business like
Upwork allows
you to find contractors to do
programming
and other tasks available around
the world.
Czech Republic.
PAUL SOLMAN: Czech Republic,
U.S., Croatia,
Philippines.
But the technology that allows
for such wonders,
and the wage exploitation of a
global race
to the bottom, also suggests a
more appealing
future for work in America.
JERRY DAVIS: You can go to this
Web site and
see these great designs for
beds, chairs,
tables and so on, the kind of
thing that you
might buy at Ikea.
But these are designs that you
can download
and create locally.
PAUL SOLMAN: Instead of
assembling Ikea furniture
themselves, that is, why can't
Americans also
make it to their own
specifications?
JERRY DAVIS: So, this is
basically an Ikea-like
chair that's made out of metal,
but you could
make it out of plastic or wood.
PAUL SOLMAN: These are just
prototypes or
models.
JERRY DAVIS: Yes.
These are the designs online
shrunk to a tiny
version.
But you could make a full-sized
version of
this, this afternoon.
PAUL SOLMAN: So Davis took us to
TechShop
Detroit, where Vasile Vincent
(ph) was using
a computer-controlled cutting
machine to carve
a table leg based on an online
design.
For a monthly fee, members of
TechShop, a
nationwide chain, access all
manner of gadgetry.
Faith Olsen (ph) was working the
water jet
cutter.
FAITH OLSEN, TechShop Detroit:
It's using
sand.
It's using water pressure.
It's basically using erosion to
cut through.
We have got eighth-inch aluminum
on there
right now.
PAUL SOLMAN: Wow.
So that's cutting through
aluminum now.
FAITH OLSEN: Yes.
It's just cutting right through
it.
PAUL SOLMAN: TechShop is for
polished pros
and rank amateurs alike.
The manager of this Detroit site
is Will Brick.
So, who is this?
The Red Baron?
WILL BRICK, TechShop: Yes,
right.
I like to imagine that's me in
the cockpit
there.
PAUL SOLMAN: Brick cooked up
this model airplane
for a summer camp.
WILL BRICK: One of the things we
taught kids
to do was to build an airframe
and then add
a radio control mechanism to
actually be able
to remotely pilot it.
PAUL SOLMAN: So, future makers
learn how to
do it themselves, while
entrepreneurs hatch
the products of tomorrow.
The Rope Runner was the
brainchild of Kevin
Bingham.
WILL BRICK: He came up with this
thing that
allows you to scale a tree, go
up and down
without changing kit, and be as
nimble as
like a spider monkey, right?
He came into TechShop, drew up
some prototypes,
made some wooden mockups, and
cut out the
finished aluminum pieces,
assembled all that,
and then engraved his logo and
the phrase
"Made in Detroit," which I love,
into the
powder coating on the sides of
the apparatus.
PAUL SOLMAN: What Davis sees
budding in Detroit
is an alternative to a world run
by Nike and
Ikea, manufacturing brought back
to America,
made possible by ever-cheaper
technology,
and repurposing the industrial
infrastructure
of the past.
Consider the Green Garage, a
socially conscious
business incubator housed in a
former Model-T
showroom.
DEVITA DAVISON, FoodLab Detroit:
We are a
diverse community of about 211
locally-owned
food businesses.
PAUL SOLMAN: Devita Davison of
FoodLab deploys
local kitchens, so that
entrepreneurs can
bake and then sell cakes, for
instance.
DEVITA DAVISON: Taking advantage
of underutilized
community kitchen space in
churches, day care
centers and Head Start.
PAUL SOLMAN: Amany Killawi
co-founded LaunchGood,
a crowdfunding site for Muslims.
AMANY KILLAWI, LaunchGood: So,
it can be anything
from someone creating their
first children's
story, to an app, to starting
their own business.
But then you also have specific
personal causes,
like helping the first
Australian hijabi ballerina.
I think many times Muslims are a
seen as a
source of problems in the world,
and we're
here to show them there's a
source of solutions.
PAUL SOLMAN: The businesses here
represent
Jerry Davis' dream of a work
force that makes
locally, but thinks globally.
JERRY DAVIS: These are
businesses that are
meant to last a long time.
But really they are part of a
broader ecosystem,
and their goal is really, what
can we do to
make Detroit, as a community,
stronger?
It's a very different model
than, how do we
create the most shareholder
value, how do
I retire before I have reached
drinking age?
PAUL SOLMAN: A visit to the Red
Panda space,
a whole office, gave Davis a
chance to relive
his days in the college rock
band Ivan Pavlov's
Salivation Army.
Today, professional groups like
Wilco and
the Red Hot Chili Peppers use
Red Panda guitar
effects to create new sounds.
Owner Curt Malouin designs the
pedals himself
and has them made within fairly
easy reach.
CURT MALOUIN, Owner, Red Panda:
And that allows
us to have better control over
the quality
and more flexibility, so that we
can experiment
with new products and be on the
leading edge
of the market, but we can also
then ramp up
production really easily when we
get a hit
product.
PAUL SOLMAN: Turns out Malouin
assembled the
very first pedal back at
TechShop, where plenty
of other do-it-your-selfers are
inventing
things on shared equipment.
John Osborne dreamed up a
box-making machine.
JOHN OSBORNE, Inventor: It only
takes about
15 seconds to change from one
box to a completely
different box, so it's the only
machine of
its kind in the world.
PAUL SOLMAN: And with so many a
folks turning
out small runs of bespoke
products, you need
all kinds of boxes.
And it's now technically
feasible, says Jerry
Davis.
JERRY DAVIS: This is a place
where capital
equipment is so cheap and so
easy to use that
children can learn to use it in
two hours,
and if it's that accessible, why
do we need
corporations?
PAUL SOLMAN: But if everybody
can make everything
by themselves, there are no more
manufacturing
jobs.
JERRY DAVIS: Why do we need to
have jobs?
If there are other ways to
provide those same
results, then maybe we could
organize our
time differently.
Maybe we could be a maker on
Tuesday morning
and a farmer on Tuesday
afternoon and a mash-up
deejay on Tuesday evening.
And we could all have more
rewarding lives
with more control over our time.
PAUL SOLMAN: Hey, maybe you
could all make
TV stories like this one.
But, until then, this is Paul
Solman, economics
correspondent every day of the
week, reporting
from Detroit.
GWEN IFILL: Last night we
brought you stories
of American women forced into
marriage in
this country.
Tonight, in part two of her
exclusive report,
special correspondent Gayle
Tzemach Lemmon
tells us of Americans taken
overseas for the
same reason, both women and
girls, who often
find themselves beyond the
assistance of their
own government.
JADA, New Jersey Teen: I was a
kid.
I hadn't really grown that much,
so I was
really scared.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Jada was
just 12 years
old when her father took her
from the United
States to live in Saudi Arabia.
And her future was about to
change dramatically.
How did you first find out what
your father
had planned for you?
JADA: Well, one day, we were
walking.
We were walking to a store.
And he told me to stay on his
right side,
because they do that there, so
that other
men know that the woman that
they have on
their right side is for sale.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Jada,
whose last name
we are withholding at the
request of her lawyer,
hadn't even started high school
when her father,
a convert to Islam, moved them
both to Jeddah
and began trying to marry her
off.
SHIRLEY, Aunt: She's thousands
of miles away,
and there's nothing we can do.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Jada's
family back in
New Jersey was terrified when
they heard what
her dad had planned.
Jada's mother had died suddenly
a few years
earlier, but her aunt Shirley
says her sister
Mecca rose up to fill the role.
MECCA, Sister: I was at work.
And I got a text that said, help
me.
And I was like, gee, what are
you talking
about, help me?
And she's like, no, help me.
My dad's trying to sell me.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Over the
next few months,
Mecca tried to support her
little sister,
to plot her return and to save
her from marriage.
MECCA: Other than texting, I
never got to
physically hear her voice.
So I didn't know if she was
crying at the
moment or if she was scared.
I'm just looking at text
messages.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: And the
messages grew
increasingly desperate.
MECCA: I was literally losing
sleep, like
every day depressed, going to
work depressed,
because I really didn't know
what to do.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Mecca
contacted everyone
she could think of, including
the United States
government.
MECCA: Even though the embassy
was meant to
help Americans, it was -- they
had to still
go through -- they had to still
use Saudi
Arabia laws.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: In the
end, it was up
to the family to protect Jada.
SHIRLEY: I started to feel like
we were exhausting
everything, because it seemed
like everybody
was saying, well, you know, you
know, there's
really nothing we can do.
MECCA: So, my aunt started
saving money to
get Jada home.
And I started just contacting
everybody.
And that's when I came in
contact with Casey.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Casey is
Casey Swegman,
a counselor at the Tahirih
Justice Center,
an organization in Northern
Virginia devoted
to protecting immigrant women
and girls.
Mecca reached her via a human
trafficking
hot line.
Over three months, Swegman
gathered information
about Jada's case, working with
Mecca on strategies
to get her sister back.
CASEY SWEGMAN, Tahirih Justice
Center: I think,
as an advocate, if Jada hadn't
had Mecca,
it would've been a profoundly
different experience.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Together,
they succeeded
in bring Jada home before any
marriage could
take place.
Today, she is a star student
about to enter
high school and dreaming of
college at UCLA.
But not everyone is so lucky.
According to the Tahirih Justice
Center, thousands
of American women are forced
into marriages
every year.
Tahirih runs one of the only
forced marriage
programs in the country.
And they have worked with nearly
400 girls
and women to help them either
avoid or escape
a forced marriage.
LINA ALAHRI, Forced Into
Marriage: I remember
the engagement.
I'm in this crazy dress.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: American
citizen Lina
Alahri was 21 when her father
took her to
his native Yemen, amid the
ongoing war...
LINA ALAHRI: This is me.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: .. veiled
as a visit
to her ailing grandmother.
Once there, the former
California high school
Almond Blossom queen contestant
quickly learned
that she was about to marry a
man whom she'd
never met, forced by her father
into a marriage
she didn't want.
She says she tried everything to
avoid it.
LINA ALAHRI: The first thing I
imagined was,
I can make a run for it right
now.
But I knew that wasn't an
option.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: According
to custom,
Alahri was taken to her new
husband's home,
where she was expected to
consummate the marriage
while his whole family waited
for proof.
LINA ALAHRI: I remember my
father in-law telling
me, what is the problem?
Why are you not doing it?
The faster you do this, the
faster you get
to go home.
The faster that you have
intercourse is the
faster that you can come home.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: But Alahri
was 8,000
miles away from her home.
And no one, it seemed, could
help her, not
even her government.
LINA ALAHRI: You think, well, I
am a U.S.
citizen, and the one thing that
you want to
do is, you want to take off, hit
the U.S.
Embassy, and then they are your
savior and
they will fly you out.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: But it
wasn't the case.
A close friend of Alahri's was
able to contact
the U.S. Embassy in Sanaa,
Yemen's capital,
on her behalf.
"Tell her that we're unable to
intervene directly,"
their response read.
"If she can find her way to the
U.S. Embassy,
we are open."
But she couldn't get there
because it was
too dangerous.
And in the end, she consummated
the marriage.
She felt it was her only path to
getting home
alive.
LINA ALAHRI: Sometimes, the only
way out is
through.
Right?
CASEY SWEGMAN: The whole system
failed Lina.
The world failed Lina.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Casey
Swegman took on
Alahri's case after her best
friend back in
California contacted the group.
CASEY SWEGMAN: When a women's
only choice,
only option for getting to
safety is to capitulate
to rape, into a forced marriage,
that is a
failure of the entire system.
MICHELLE BERNIER-TOTH, Managing
Director,
Overseas Citizens Services,
Bureau of Consular
Affairs: We failed them by not
having mechanisms
to prevent them from going
overseas and being
forced into marriage in the
first place.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Michelle
Bernier-Toth
is the managing director for
overseas citizens
services in the State
Department's Bureau
of Consular Affairs.
MICHELLE BERNIER-TOTH: They're
being held
against their will, but in
accordance with
local law, because they have
been legally
married in that country.
And their spouse now has legal
authority and
control over what happens to
them.
And contrary to a kidnapping or
a hostage-taking,
there is a legal basis for that
action that
is one of the big -- it's a huge
challenge.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: Americans
usually think
that, if they're threatened
overseas, the
State Department can swoop in
and rescue them,
but the reality is much more
complicated.
Both young women in this story
reached out
seeking help from abroad.
But the truth is, Americans
don't take their
laws with them when they travel.
In both cases here, these young
women were
able to orchestrate trips back
to the United
States.
Then-12-year-old Jada's family
won custody
of her when she came to the U.S.
for a visit
with her father.
And Alahri's plan for freedom
was even more
intrepid.
With the war in Yemen pounding
outside her
windows, she worked with Tahirih
and her best
friend from home to orchestrate
the plan.
After marrying the stranger, she
returned
to the U.S. on a pledge to
acquire visas for
her in-laws.
When she landed in the United
States, Tahirih
was waiting.
It took several agonizing months
for each
of them to find their escape
routes.
Now on American soil, Tahirih
has helped them
restart their lives and
continues to offer
counseling and support.
But Swegman and her colleagues
still feel
these are isolated successes
over a problem
few Americans even know exists:
forced marriage
in the United States.
CASEY SWEGMAN: I think the worst
outcomes
are probably somewhere out
there, with a woman
who maybe only have the 15
minutes to call,
but I never heard from her
again.
And I think, you know the bad
endings are
the ones we never see.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: "PBS
NewsHour" attempted
to contact both Alahri's and
Jada's fathers,
and received no reply.
Today, home once again in
California, Alahri
considers Swegman a member of
her own family.
LINA ALAHRI: To have that
support and have
that love from somebody you have
never even
met before, it makes a huge
difference.
Like, Tahirih and like Casey,
and I seem so
lucky to have all that, because
if it weren't
for those people, you don't know
where you
would be.
GAYLE TZEMACH LEMMON: But now
the former Miss
Almond Blossom contestant is
back studying
and working toward a future she
nearly lost.
I'm Gayle Tzemach Lemmon for the
"PBS NewsHour"
in California.
GWEN IFILL: You can go online to
watch the
first of Gayle's reports and a
conversation
about the series.
And, tomorrow, join our Twitter
chat about
forced marriage at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern, with
Gayle and a number of experts
and advocates.
You can find the link on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now: what
specific skills employers
want from college graduates, and
what a college
can do to prove students are
ready.
Hari Sreenivasan has the story
as part of
our special series this week on
Rethinking
College.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Graduation day
at Georgetown
University.
It takes four years, more than
$200,000, and
a lot of hard work to get here.
But now more employers are
asking, what does
a four-year degree really mean?
What true marketable skills can
new graduates
offer the work force?
Georgetown University is trying
to answer
that question.
RANDALL BASS, Georgetown
University: We're
hearing from employers, how do
you differentiate
between two graduates?
HARI SREENIVASAN: Professor
Randall Bass leads
the college's Designing the
Future Initiative.
RANDALL BASS: If you have got a
pile of 10
graduates who all have degrees
from quality
liberal arts schools, and they
all look more
or less alike in terms of their
formal credentials,
are there ways to differentiate
them?
HARI SREENIVASAN: Last semester,
Bass and
colleagues at Georgetown offered
a free experimental
course for students who want to
further distinguish
themselves.
Instead of receiving a
traditional credit,
students who meet the
requirements are awarded
a digital badge.
RANDALL BASS: What we see in the
badges is
a way of trying to help students
tell a story
about some dimension of their
learning that
might otherwise be merely a line
on their
resume.
ERIKA COHEN-DERR, Georgetown
University; It's
easy with a degree to show what
you have learned
in biology or in business.
But it's not easy to show what
you have learned
in terms of leadership.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Erika
Cohen-Derr, who was
part of the Georgetown team that
designed
the new badge, says employers
want to know
more about as student's
disposition.
ERIKA COHEN-DERR: These are the
soft skills.
These are skills like empathy,
communication,
ethical leadership, the
dispositions that
a student has that they bring to
any team
or any group.
DESY OSUNSADE, Job Recruiter: A
resume has
never been enough.
That's why the concept of
badging is appealing
to me.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Job
recruiters, like Desy
Osunsade, see digital badges as
a way to better
define talent.
DESY OSUNSADE: We spend a lot of
time and
money as recruiters trying to
make sure that
we have the perfect fit, because
recruiting
is expensive.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Osunsade
recruits for Arabella
Philanthropic Investment
Advisors.
She says a degree doesn't say
enough about
a potential hire.
DESY OSUNSADE: It tells me the
person's line
of study.
It doesn't tell me if they are
good at things
like critical thinking,
problem-solving, do
they work well in teams, do they
have oral
communication?
A resume, in itself, with a
degree from anywhere
doesn't tell me that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The digital
badge offered
by Georgetown is called a
Catalyst Badge.
Alexis Oni-Eseleh participated
in the pilot.
ALEXIS ONI-ESELEH, Graduate: The
Catalyst
Badge is just affirming that
when we see something
that needs to be changed, we
just go about
it, proving that you are an
agent of change
in accomplishing the goals you
set for yourself.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Don Fraser,
from the Education
Design Lab, works with
Georgetown, George
Mason University, and University
of Virginia,
as part of a larger effort
called the 21st
Century Skill Badging Challenge.
HARI SREENIVASAN: If I'm an
employer, I'm
going to get a better employee
if they have
badges that say they are a
creative problem
solver or critical thinker, a
good oral communicator?
DON FRASER, Education Design
Lab: If there's
rigor in those badges, I would
-- and those
are skills that you find
valuable in the work
that you're doing, I would say
yes.
HARI SREENIVASAN: More so than
just if they
came out of a specific school
with a certain
degree?
DON FRASER: Exactly, right,
because they have
been working specifically to
acquire those
skills, which is totally
different than the
implicit way in which we believe
they are
getting those right now, hoping
that by the
time they graduate and get this
degree, they
have gained these skills in some
capacity.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Anthony
Carnevale is the
director of the Georgetown
University Center
on Education and the Workforce.
ANTHONY CARNEVALE, Georgetown
University:
What's happening is that the
on-the-job training
is no longer sufficient, because
employers
don't commit to employees for a
lifetime the
way they used to, so we have got
to get our
own job training.
HARI SREENIVASAN: In may, Alexis
Oni-Eseleh
graduated from Georgetown with a
major in
global health and a minor in
women's gender
studies.
Since graduation, she has been
helping with
her parents' company and will
start a more
serious job search this fall.
ALEXIS ONI-ESELEH: Here it is,
certification
Catalyst Credential.
I had to pass a certain level of
criteria,
which you can find here.
And if you click there, it will
take you to
this Web site, which tells you
everything
I needed to do to become a
Catalyst.
The Catalyst Credential is
awarded to a student
who embraces challenges,
demonstrates initiative,
pursues positive social change.
DON FRASER: You host them
online, and they're
hosted digitally.
People have the ability to click
on that badge
and get at the metadata
associated with how
the learner, the student
achieved that particular
badge.
So, if I am so inclined, I can
look at assessments
that were a part of that badge.
I can look at the work, the body
of work that
the student did in order to earn
that badge.
ANNOUNCER: The same degree from
different
schools produces different
workers.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Some emerging
for-profit
education ventures see a much
bigger role
for digital badges.
RYAN CRAIG, Author, "College
Disrupted: The
Great Unbundling of Higher
Education": A degree
doesn't say a lot.
A badge or a micro-credential
can say a lot
more.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Ryan Craig is
the author
of "College Disrupted: The Great
Unbundling
of Higher Education."
RYAN CRAIG: The primary
credential that we
use in our labor market is the
degree.
That's the sort of default
credential.
Micro-credentials, or badges,
breaks that
down into literally
competencies.
What micro-credentials are
signaling is the
shift from degree-based hiring
to competency-based
hiring.
ANNOUNCER: That's right,
LinkedIn, it's not
just for top executives.
It's for you, and it's the
perfect place for
you to start your professional
story.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Craig points
to Microsoft
and its recent purchase of
LinkedIn as new
players in the field of
post-secondary education
because they offer educational
training, certificates,
and a marketplace to display
skills.
RYAN CRAIG: Competency
marketplaces, we think,
are the way in which a decade
from now are,
most post-secondary education
will be purchased.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But Anthony
Carnevale cautions
that commercial badges,
micro-credentials,
and certificates need more
scrutiny.
ANTHONY CARNEVALE: It's a whole
industry where
I there's no transparency, no
consumer protection,
so let the buyer beware of what
happened to
the people who took this course,
got this
badge, so that people can tell
if something
is worth the money.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Alexis
Oni-Eseleh says she
recently used the Catalyst badge
in a job
interview.
ALEXIS ONI-ESELEH: The
interviewer asked me
to talk about a time where I
showed initiative,
and I was able to talk about the
digital badge
and all the steps I had to take
in order to
get it and to qualify for it.
And I even encouraged her to go
look up the
digital badge on my LinkedIn
page.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This fall,
designers of
the badge challenge are
expanding their reach
to colleges who serve
non-traditional students,
who often have a harder struggle
to find jobs.
In Washington, D.C., I'm Hari
Sreenivasan
for the "PBS NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: And a nice
postscript to the
story: This month, Alexis
Oni-Eseleh started
a job as a media buyer at an ad
agency on
Madison Avenue in New York.
And online, a look at whether
remedial classes
really help college students
succeed.
That's at PBS.org/NewsHour.
GWEN IFILL: Now a "NewsHour"
Shares, something
that caught our eye that we
thought might
be of interest to you.
A town in Washington state is
home to a group
of seven former lab chimpanzees
who have been
given a second chance to live
out their lives
in the rural pastures of Cle
Elum, where they
are honorary citizens.
The story comes to us from PBS
station KCTS
in Seattle.
J.B.
MULCAHY, Chimpanzee Sanctuary
Northwest: Diana
and I have been here a couple
months prior
to the chimps' arrival.
Now it's been a little over
eight years that
we have been with the chimps.
DIANA GOODRICH,, Chimpanzee
Sanctuary Northwest:
So they are honorary citizens of
Cle Elum
and are known throughout the
world as the
Cle Elum 7.
Annie is a really sweet, sweet
chimp.
And she's best friends with
Missy.
She just adores Missy.
Burrito is super goofy, really
charming.
Our Facebook followers of Cle
Elum are just
totally in love with Burrito.
J.B.
MULCAHY: Negra is the oldest of
the group,
about to turn 43.
Foxie is known around the world
now for her
level of troll dolls, because
she probably
has about 400 dolls.
DIANA GOODRICH: Jody, we call
the manager.
She is like watching out for
everybody.
Jamie is the boss of the group.
She also really likes Instagram.
This area is what called Young's
Hill.
It's an open enclosure, so it
was the first
time the chimps ever were
outside without
something over their heads, so
they could
actually see the sky.
And some of them, it was the
first time they
had actually ever stepped on
grass probably
in their entire lives, because
many of the
chimps were born in captivity.
J.B.
MULCAHY: We never go into the
enclosure with
the chimps.
Aggression is a normal part of
chimpanzees'
life.
And so it's just not safe.
But also we want to respect
their space, since
they are territorial.
And so we want, as much as we
can, to respect
that boundary and let them be
chimps.
GWEN IFILL: Chimps.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
On Friday, correspondent William
Brangham
reports on the showdown between
the Standing
Rock Sioux Tribe and oil
companies over the
pipeline in North Dakota.
I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I'm Judy
Woodruff.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening
with Mark Shields and David
Brooks.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.